---
title   : Glossary
anchors : true
---


# Glossary

Both mediasoup and mediasoup-client refer to the same common entities that are represented in both client and server sides. Those entities are described below:


### Room
{: #Glossary-Room}

A **Room** represents a multi-party conference with N participants (**Peers**). Within a **Room**, audio and video tracks generated by a client/browser are relayed to all the participants.


### Peer
{: #Glossary-Peer}

A **Peer** represents a participant in the conference, thus it has a local (client side) representation and a remote (server side) representation. When a client joins a **Room** it also gets information about existing and new **Peers** in the conference.

A **Peer** holds a set of associated **Transport**, **Producer** and **Consumer** instances.


### Transport
{: #Glossary-Transport}

A **Transport** represents a path for sending or receiving audio/video RTP and RTCP. In the context of WebRTC this means a network path negotiated by both, the client and the server, via ICE and DTLS. A **Transport** has an associated entity in both client and server sides.


### Producer
{: #Glossary-Producer}

A **Producer** represents and handles a media track (audio or video) sent by a client to the server. A **Producer** has an associated entity in both client and server sides, meaning that both sides (the client app and the server app) can run API methods on it (such as pausing or resuming it).

In order to send the media track to the server, the **Producer** needs to be provided with a **Transport** instance.

In mediasoup (server side) a **Producer** is connected with many **Consumers** associated to it.


### Consumer
{: #Glossary-Consumer}

A **Consumer** represents and handles a media track (audio or video) sent by the server to the client. A **Consumer** has an associated entity in both client and server sides, meaning that both sides (the client app and the server app) can run API methods on it (such as pausing or resuming it).

Typically, a **Consumer** has a remote **Producer** as a source. In fact, an audio **Producer** created by Alice's **Peer** will trigger the creation of an audio **Consumer** in Bob's **Peer** and all the other **Peers**.

It's up to the client side application whether to enable/activate a **Consumer** (by providing a **Transport**) or not. Once enabled, the corresponding RTP is relayed to the client.


### Profile
{: #Glossary-Profile}

A **Profile** represents a RTP quality layer and, hence, just makes sense for [simulcast](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-westerlund-avtcore-rtp-simulcast) streams.

mediasoup defines the following profiles:

* **default**: If no simulcast, it just points to the single audio or video RTP stream. When there is simulcast, this profile means the highest available stream.
* **low**: The lowest profile. In simulcast this means the stream with lowest video resolution.
* **medium**: The medium profile. In simulcast this means the stream with medium video resolution.
* **high**: The highest profile. In simulcast this means the stream with highest video resolution.
* **none**: Special case when there is no available stream (this may happen at **Consumer** level when no profile can be sent to the remote client).
