---
title   : F.A.Q.
anchors : true
---


# F.A.Q.

* Will be replaced with the ToC
{: toc}


### Why a Node.js module?
{: #why-a-nodejs-module}

You may wonder "why not a standalone server?". That's a fair question.

Being a [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) module, **mediasoup** is easily integrable within larger Node.js applications. Consider that **mediasoup** just handles the media plane (audio/video streams) so the application needs some kind of signaling mechanism (let it be SIP, XMPP or whichever custom signaling protocol). Having both the signaling and the media handlers working together makes the application architecture easier.

All those using others languages/platforms for the signaling plane would need to develop their own communication channel with a standalone Node.js server running **mediasoup** (or wait for somebody to do it).


### Is mediasoup a native addon?
{: #is-mediasoup-a-native-addon}

Not exactly. [Native addons](https://nodejs.org/api/addons.html) are Node.js extensions written in C/C++ that can be loaded using `require()` as if they were ordinary Node.js modules.

Instead, **mediasoup** launches a set of C++ child processes ([media workers](https://github.com/ibc/mediasoup/tree/master/worker)) and communicates with them by means of inter-process communication. This appraoch leads to a media worker design not tiled to the internals of Node.js or V8 (which change in every new release).


### Which signaling protocol does it use?
{: #which-signaling-protocol-does-it-use}

That's a wrong question. **mediasoup** does not provide any network signaling protocol to communicate with endpoints/browsers. It just handles the media layer.

It's up to the application developer to build his preferred signaling protocol or choose an existing one and integrate it with **mediasoup**.


### ORTC API?
{: #ortc-api}

[ORTC](http://ortc.org/) is a more granular and "Object" based API for WebRTC. Moreover, the [WebRTC draft](http://w3c.github.io/webrtc-pc/) is evolving to the "Object" model so both specifications are converging.

By providing a similar API, the developer does not need to learn yet another WebRTC API when it comes to write a **mediasoup** based application.


### What about SDP?
{: #what-about-sdp}

**mediasoup** does not consume/produce SDP blobs. In order to interoperate with current WebRTC 1.0 browsers, the application is responsible of parsing the SDP entities generated by remote peers and translating them into **mediasoup** [API](/api/) calls (and vice-versa: generating SDP entities to make WebRTC 1.0 endpoints happy).

Of course, "someone" may produce a Node.js module/utility that deals with that stuff. :)


### Does mediasoup transcode?
{: #does-mediasoup-transcode}

No. All the peers in a room must support a common subset of audio and video codecs. Said that, WebRTC defines a list of MTI ("mandatory to implement") audio/video codecs, so in a world of happy unicorns this topic should not be a problem.


### Does it work with legacy SIP endpoints?
{: #does-it-work-with-legacy-sip-endpoints}

This is a WebRTC SFU so, as far as the endpoint supports the WebRTC media requirements (ICE, DTLS-SRTP, MTI codecs, multi-stream, etc.), it can join a **mediasoup** room.

However, these requirements are not usually satisfied by existing SIP devices so a media gateway may be required. We consider that such a task (translating the old world to the new one) is best done outside **mediasoup**.
