github.md, before:

---
title : GitHub
---


# GitHub

##### [mediasoup](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup/)

C++ SFU and server side Node.js module.

##### [mediasoup-client](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-client/)

Client side JavaScript library.

##### [libmediasoupclient](https://github.com/versatica/libmediasoupclient/)

C++ library based on libwebrtc.

##### [mediasoup-demo](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-demo/)

Source code of the [mediasoup demo](https://demo.mediasoup.org) application.

##### [mediasoup-broadcaster-demo](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-broadcaster-demo/)

libmediasoupclient based C++ application that produces the system microphone and webcam into the mediasoup demo.

##### [mediasoup-website](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-website/)

The mediasoup project website at [https://mediasoup.org](https://mediasoup.org).


## Examples

Check out some projects and examples using mediasoup, mediasoup-client and libmediasoup client in the [Examples](/documentation/examples/) section.

Commit message:

github.md: Added "3rd Party Contributions" section with iOS and Android libmediasoupclient wrappers

github.md, after:

---
title : GitHub
---


# GitHub

##### [mediasoup](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup/)

C++ SFU and server side Node.js module.


##### [mediasoup-client](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-client/)

Client side JavaScript library.


##### [libmediasoupclient](https://github.com/versatica/libmediasoupclient/)

C++ library based on libwebrtc.

##### [mediasoup-demo](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-demo/)


Source code of the [mediasoup demo](https://demo.mediasoup.org) application.


##### [mediasoup-broadcaster-demo](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-broadcaster-demo/)

libmediasoupclient based C++ application that produces the system microphone and webcam into the mediasoup demo.


##### [mediasoup-website](https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-website/)

The mediasoup project website at [https://mediasoup.org](https://mediasoup.org).


## 3rd Party Contributions

Here some libraries and SDKs contributed by non mediasoup authors that may be adopted in the future by the team behind mediasoup.


##### [ethand91/mediasoup-ios-client](https://github.com/ethand91/mediasoup-ios-client)

Objective-C wrapper library for libmediasoupclient for building mediasoup based **native** iOS based applications.


##### [haiyangwu/mediasoup-client-android](https://github.com/haiyangwu/mediasoup-client-android)

Java wrapper library for libmediasoupclient for building mediasoup based **native** Android based applications.


## Examples

Check out some projects and examples using mediasoup, mediasoup-client and libmediasoup client in the [Examples](/documentation/examples/) section.
