support.md, before:

---
title : Support
---


# Support

mediasoup is an Open Source project supported on a best effort basis.


### Questions and doubts

Use the public [mediasoup Google Group][mediasoup-google-group] for questions and doubts regarding mediasoup.

<div markdown="1" class="note">
Before doing that, please check the [documentation](/documentation/) and the [F.A.Q.](/faq/) (the response could be there).
</div>


### Issues and feature requests

If you find an issue or bug in the software, or want to propose a new feature or improvement, do not hesitate to report it in the corresponding issue tracker:

* [mediasoup issue tracker][mediasoup-github-issues]
* [mediasoup-client issue tracker][mediasoup-client-github-issues]
* [libmediasoupclient issue tracker][libmediasoupclient-github-issues]

<div markdown="1" class="note warn">
Please do **NOT** open an issue in GitHub for questions or doubts. Use the [mediasoup Google Group][mediasoup-google-group] instead.
</div>




[mediasoup-google-group]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mediasoup
[mediasoup-github-issues]: https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup/issues
[mediasoup-client-github-issues]: https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-client/issues
[libmediasoupclient-github-issues]: https://github.com/versatica/libmediasoupclient/issues

Commit message:

Support: add mediasoup Discourse Group

support.md, after:

---
title : Support
---


# Support

mediasoup is an Open Source project supported on a best effort basis. Before asking any questions, please check the [documentation](/documentation/) and the [F.A.Q.](/faq/) (the response may be there).


### Questions and doubts

Use the [mediasoup Discourse Group][mediasoup-discourse-group] for questions and doubts regarding mediasoup and its ecosystem.

<div markdown="1" class="note">
You can also check for historical discussions in the [mediasoup Google Group][mediasoup-google-group] (previously used as mediasoup support forum).
</div>


### Bug reports and feature requests

If you find an issue or bug in the software, or want to propose a new feature or improvement, do not hesitate to report it in the corresponding issue tracker:

* [mediasoup issue tracker][mediasoup-github-issues]
* [mediasoup-client issue tracker][mediasoup-client-github-issues]
* [libmediasoupclient issue tracker][libmediasoupclient-github-issues]

<div markdown="1" class="note warn">
Please do **NOT** open an issue in GitHub for questions or doubts. Use the [mediasoup Discourse Group][mediasoup-discourse-group] instead.
</div>




[mediasoup-discourse-group]:https://mediasoup.discourse.group
[mediasoup-google-group]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mediasoup
[mediasoup-github-issues]: https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup/issues
[mediasoup-client-github-issues]: https://github.com/versatica/mediasoup-client/issues
[libmediasoupclient-github-issues]: https://github.com/versatica/libmediasoupclient/issues
