## Server
{: #Server}

A `server` runs and manages a set of **mediasoup** worker child processes that handle media realtime-communications (ICE, DTLS, RTP, RTCP, DataChannel, etc.).


### Dictionaries
{: #Server-dictionaries}

<section markdown="1">

#### ServerSettings
{: #Server-ServerSettings .code}

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3 M5">

Field                    | Type    | Description   | Required | Default
------------------------ | ------- | ------------- | -------- | ---------
`numWorkers`             | Integer | Number of child worker processes. | No | Number of CPU cores in the host
`logLevel`               | String  | Logging level for logs generated by the media worker subprocesses (check the [Debugging](/guide/debugging) documentation). Valid values are "debug", "warn", "error". | No | "debug"
`logTags`                | Array   | Log tags for debugging. Check the list of available tags in [Debugging](/guide/debugging) documentation. | No | `[ ]`
`rtcIPv4`          | String\|Boolean | IPv4 for RTC. Valid values are a IPv4, `true` (auto-detect) and `false` (disabled). | No | `true`
`rtcIPv6`          | String\|Boolean | IPv6 for RTC. Valid values are a IPv6, `true` (auto-detect) and `false` (disabled). | No | `true`
`rtcAnnouncedIPv4` | String | Announced IPv4 for RTC. Useful for deployments in server with private IP such as AWS. Valid values are a IPv4. | No |
`rtcAnnouncedIPv6` | String | Announced IPv6 for RTC. Useful for deployments in server with private IP such as AWS. Valid values are a IPv4. | No |
`rtcMinPort`             | Integer | Minimun RTC port. | No | 10000
`rtcMaxPort`             | Integer | Maximum RTC port. | No | 59999
`dtlsCertificateFile`    | String  | Path to the DTLS certificate. If unset, a random certificate is generated. | No |
`dtlsPrivateKeyFile`     | String  | Path to the DTLS private key. If unset, a random certificate is generated. | No |

</div>

#### ServerUpdateableSettings
{: #Server-ServerUpdateableSettings .code}

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Field                    | Type    | Description   | Required | Default
------------------------ | ------- | ------------- | -------- | ---------
`logLevel`               | String  | Logging level for logs generated by the media worker subprocesses (check the [Debugging](/guide/debugging) documentation). Valid values are "debug", "warn", "error". | No |
`logTags`                | Array   | Log tags for debugging. Check the list of available tags in [Debugging](/guide/debugging) documentation). | No |

</div>

</section>


### Properties
{: #Server-properties}

<section markdown="1">

#### server.closed
{: #server-closed .code}

* Read only

A boolean indicating whether the `server` has been closed.

</section>


### Methods
{: #Server-methods}

<section markdown="1">

#### server.close()
{: #server-close .code}

Closes the `server`, including all its `rooms`, and triggers a [`close`](#server-on-close) event.


#### server.dump()
{: #server-dump .code}

For debugging purposes. Returns a Promise that resolves to an Object containing the `server` internals.

```json
{
  "workers" :
  [
    {
      "workerId" : "gijzfkyr#1",
      "rooms"    : []
    },
    {
      "workerId" : "gijzfkyr#2",
      "rooms"    : []
    }
  ]
}
```

#### server.updateSettings(settings)
{: #server-updateSettings .code}

Updates the `server` settings in runtime. Just a subset of the full [ServerSettings](#Server-ServerSettings) can be updated.

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Argument   | Type    | Description | Required | Default 
---------- | ------- | ----------- | -------- | ----------
`settings` | [ServerUpdateableSettings](#Server-ServerUpdateableSettings) | Server settings. | No |

</div>

#### server.createRoom(options)
{: #server-createRoom .code}

Returns a Promise that resolves to a new [Room](#Room) instance. If something goes wrong the Promise is rejected with the corresponding `Error` object. 

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Argument   | Type    | Description | Required | Default 
---------- | ------- | ----------- | -------- | ----------
`options`  | [RoomOptions](#Room-RoomOptions) | Room options. | Yes |

</div>

Usage example:

```javascript
const options = {
  roomCodecs : [
    {
      kind        : "audio",
      name        : "audio/opus",
      clockRate   : 48000,
      payloadType : 101,
      parameters  :
      {
        useInBandFec : true,
        useDtx       : true
      }
    },
    {
      kind        : "video",
      name        : "video/vp8",
      clockRate   : 90000,
      payloadType : 102
    }
  ]
};

server.createRoom(options)
  .then((room) => {
    console.log("room created: %o", room);
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error("room creation failed: %o", error);
  });
```

</section>


### Events
{: #Server-events}

The `Server` class inherits from [EventEmitter](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_class_eventemitter).

<section markdown="1">

#### server.on("close", fn(error))
{: #server-on-close .code}

Emitted when the `server` is closed. In case of error, the callback is called with the corresponding `Error` object.

```javascript
server.on("close", (error) => {
  if (error)
    console.error("server closed with error: %o", error);
});
```

#### server.on("newroom", room)
{: #server-on-newroom .code}

Emitted when a new `room` is created.

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Argument | Type    | Description   
-------- | ------- | ----------------
`room`   | [Room](#Room) | New `room`.

</div>

</section>
