_includes/documentation/v3/mediasoup/api/PipeTransport.md, before:

## PipeTransport
{: #PipeTransport}

<section markdown="1">

> `@inherits` [Transport](#Transport)

A pipe transport represents a network path through which plain RTP and RTCP is transmitted. Pipe transports are intented to intercommunicate two [Router](#Router) instances collocated on the same host or on separate hosts.

<div markdown="1" class="note">
When calling [consume()](#transport-consume) on a pipe transport, all RTP streams of the [Producer](#Producer) are transmitted verbatim (in contrast to what happens in [WebRtcTransport](#WebRtcTransport) and [PlainRtpTransport](#PlainRtpTransport) in which a single and continuos RTP stream is sent to the consuming endpoint).
</div>

</section>


### Dictionaries
{: #PipeTransport-dictionaries}

<section markdown="1">

#### PipeTransportOptions
{: #PipeTransportOptions .code}

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Field         | Type    | Description   | Required | Default
------------- | ------- | ------------- | -------- | ---------
`listenIp`    | [TransportListenIp](#TransportListenIp)\|String| Listening IP address. | Yes |
`enableSctp` | Boolean | Create a SCTP association. | No | `false`
`numSctpStreams` | [NumSctpStreams](/documentation/v3/mediasoup/sctp-parameters/#NumSctpStreams) | SCTP streams number. | No |
`maxSctpMessageSize` | Number | Maximum size of data that can be passed to DataProducer's send() method. | No | 1073741823
`appData`     | Object  | Custom application data. | No | `{ }`

</div>

</section>


### Properties
{: #PipeTransport-properties}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Properties](#Transport-properties).

#### pipeTransport.tuple
{: #pipeTransport-tuple .code}

The transport tuple. It refers to both RTP and RTCP since pipe transports use RTCP-mux by design.

<div markdown="1" class="note">
* Once the pipe transport is created, `transport.tuple` will contain information about its `localIp`, `localPort` and `protocol`.
* Information about `remoteIp` and `remotePort` will be set after calling `connect()` method.
</div>

> `@type` [TransportTuple](#TransportTuple), read only

#### pipeTransport.sctpParameters
{: #pipeTransport-sctpParameters .code}

Local SCTP parameters.

> `@type` [SctpParameters](/documentation/v3/mediasoup/sctp-parameters/#SctpParameters), read only

#### pipeTransport.sctpState
{: #pipeTransport-sctpState .code}

Current SCTP state.

> `@type` [TransportSctpState](#TransportSctpState), read only

</section>


### Methods
{: #PipeTransport-methods}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Methods](#Transport-methods).

#### pipeTransport.getStats()
{: #pipeTransport-getStats .code}

Returns current RTC statistics of the pipe transport.

> `@async`
> 
> `@override`
> 
> `@returns` Array&lt;PipeTransportStat&gt;

#### pipeTransport.connect({ ip, port })
{: #pipeTransport-connect .code}

Provides the pipe RTP transport with the remote parameters.

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Argument   | Type    | Description | Required | Default 
---------- | ------- | ----------- | -------- | ----------
`ip`       | String  | Remote IPv4 or IPv6.   | Yes |
`port`     | Number  | Remote port.           | Yes |

</div>

> `@async`
> 
> `@overrides`

</section>


### Events
{: #PipeTransport-events}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Events](#Transport-events).

#### pipeTransport.on("sctpstatechange", fn(sctpState))
{: #pipeTransport-on-sctpstatechange .code}

Emitted when the transport SCTP state changes.

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Argument | Type    | Description   
----------------- | ------- | ----------------
`sctpState`       | [TransportSctpState](#TransportSctpState) | The new SCTP state.

</div>
</section>


### Observer Events
{: #PipeTransport-observer-events}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Observer Events](#Transport-observer-events).

#### pipeTransport.observer.on("sctpstatechange", fn(sctpState))
{: #pipeTransport-observer-on-sctpstatechange .code}

Same as the [sctpstatechange](#pipeTransport-on-sctpstatechange) event.

</section>

Commit message:

Adding doc about SRTP in plain and pipe transports, and more.

_includes/documentation/v3/mediasoup/api/PipeTransport.md, after:

## PipeTransport
{: #PipeTransport}

<section markdown="1">

> `@inherits` [Transport](#Transport)

A pipe transport represents a network path through which plain RTP and RTCP is transmitted. Pipe transports are intented to intercommunicate two [Router](#Router) instances collocated on the same host or on separate hosts.

<div markdown="1" class="note">
When calling [consume()](#transport-consume) on a pipe transport, all RTP streams of the [Producer](#Producer) are transmitted verbatim (in contrast to what happens in [WebRtcTransport](#WebRtcTransport) and [PlainRtpTransport](#PlainRtpTransport) in which a single and continuos RTP stream is sent to the consuming endpoint).
</div>

</section>


### Dictionaries
{: #PipeTransport-dictionaries}

<section markdown="1">

#### PipeTransportOptions
{: #PipeTransportOptions .code}

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Field         | Type    | Description   | Required | Default
------------- | ------- | ------------- | -------- | ---------
`listenIp`    | [TransportListenIp](#TransportListenIp)\|String| Listening IP address. | Yes |
`enableSctp` | Boolean | Create a SCTP association. | No | `false`
`numSctpStreams` | [NumSctpStreams](/documentation/v3/mediasoup/sctp-parameters/#NumSctpStreams) | SCTP streams number. | No |
`maxSctpMessageSize` | Number | Maximum size of data that can be passed to DataProducer's send() method. | No | 1073741823
`enableRtx`   | Boolean | Enable RTX and NACK for RTP retransmission. Useful if both `pipeTransports` run in different hosts. If enabled, the paired `pipeTransport` must also enable this setting. | No | `false`
`enableSrtp`  | Boolean | Enable SRTP to encrypt RTP and SRTP. If enabled, the paired `pipeTransport` must also enable this setting. | No | `false`
`appData`     | Object  | Custom application data. | No | `{ }`

</div>

</section>


### Properties
{: #PipeTransport-properties}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Properties](#Transport-properties).

#### pipeTransport.tuple
{: #pipeTransport-tuple .code}

The transport tuple. It refers to both RTP and RTCP since pipe transports use RTCP-mux by design.

<div markdown="1" class="note">
* Once the pipe transport is created, `transport.tuple` will contain information about its `localIp`, `localPort` and `protocol`.
* Information about `remoteIp` and `remotePort` will be set after calling `connect()` method.
</div>

> `@type` [TransportTuple](#TransportTuple), read only

#### pipeTransport.sctpParameters
{: #pipeTransport-sctpParameters .code}

Local SCTP parameters.

> `@type` [SctpParameters](/documentation/v3/mediasoup/sctp-parameters/#SctpParameters), read only

#### pipeTransport.sctpState
{: #pipeTransport-sctpState .code}

Current SCTP state.

> `@type` [TransportSctpState](#TransportSctpState), read only

#### pipeTransport.srtpParameters
{: #pipeTransport-srtpParameters .code}

Local SRTP parameters representing the crypto suite and key material used to encrypt sending RTP and SRTP. Those parameters must be given to the paired `pipeTransport` in the `connect()` method.

> `@type` [SrtpParameters](/documentation/v3/mediasoup/srtp-parameters/#SrtpParameters), read only

</section>


### Methods
{: #PipeTransport-methods}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Methods](#Transport-methods).

#### pipeTransport.getStats()
{: #pipeTransport-getStats .code}

Returns current RTC statistics of the pipe transport.

> `@async`
> 
> `@override`
> 
> `@returns` Array&lt;PipeTransportStat&gt;

#### pipeTransport.connect({ ip, port })
{: #pipeTransport-connect .code}

Provides the pipe RTP transport with the remote parameters.

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Argument   | Type    | Description | Required | Default 
---------- | ------- | ----------- | -------- | ----------
`ip`       | String  | Remote IPv4 or IPv6.   | Yes |
`port`     | Number  | Remote port.           | Yes |
`srtpParameters` | [SrtpParameters](/documentation/v3/mediasoup/srtp-parameters/#SrtpParameters) | SRTP parameters used by the paired `pipeTransport` to encrypt its RTP and RTCP. | No |

</div>

> `@async`
> 
> `@overrides`

```javascript
await pipeTransport.connect(
  {
    ip             : '1.2.3.4',
    port           : 9999,
    srtpParameters :
    {
      cryptoSuite : 'AES_CM_128_HMAC_SHA1_80',
      keyBase64   : 'ZnQ3eWJraDg0d3ZoYzM5cXN1Y2pnaHU5NWxrZTVv'
    }
  });
```

</section>


### Events
{: #PipeTransport-events}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Events](#Transport-events).

#### pipeTransport.on("sctpstatechange", fn(sctpState))
{: #pipeTransport-on-sctpstatechange .code}

Emitted when the transport SCTP state changes.

<div markdown="1" class="table-wrapper L3">

Argument | Type    | Description   
----------------- | ------- | ----------------
`sctpState`       | [TransportSctpState](#TransportSctpState) | The new SCTP state.

</div>

</section>


### Observer Events
{: #PipeTransport-observer-events}

<section markdown="1">

See also [Transport Observer Events](#Transport-observer-events).

#### pipeTransport.observer.on("sctpstatechange", fn(sctpState))
{: #pipeTransport-observer-on-sctpstatechange .code}

Same as the [sctpstatechange](#pipeTransport-on-sctpstatechange) event.

</section>
