---
title   : Glossary
anchors : true
---


# Glossary

Both **mediasoup** and **mediasoup-client** refer to the same common entities that are represented in both client and server sides. Those entities are described below:


## Room

A **Room** represents a multi-party conference with N participants (**Peers**). Within a **Room**, audio and video tracks generated by a client/browser are relayed to all the participants.


## Peer

A **Peer** represents a participant in the conference, thus it has a local (client side) representation and a remote (server side) representation. When a client joins a **Room** it also gets information about existing and new **Peers** in the conference.

A **Peer** holds a set of associated **Transport**, **Producer** and **Consumer** instances.


## Transport

A **Transport** represents a path for sending or receiving audio/video RTP. In the context of WebRTC this means a network path negotiated by both, the client and the server, via ICE and DTLS. A **Transport** has an associated entity in both client and server sides.


## Producer

A **Producer** represents and handles a media track (audio or video) sent by a client to the server. A **Producer** has an associated entity in both client and server sides, meaning that both sides (the client app and the server app) can run API methods on it (such as pausing or resuming it).

In order to send the media track to the server, the **Producer** needs to be provided with a **Transport** instance.


## Consumer

A **Consumer** represents and handles a media track (audio or video) sent by the server to the client. A **Consumer** has an associated entity in both client and server sides, meaning that both sides (the client app and the server app) can run API methods on it (such as pausing or resuming it).

Typically, a **Consumer** has a remote **Producer** as a source. In fact, an audio **Producer** created by Alice's **Peer** will trigger the creation of an audio **Consumer** in Bob's **Peer** and all the other **Peers**.

It's up to the client side application whether to enable/activate a **Consumer** (by providing a **Transport**) or not. Once enabled, the corresponding RTP is relayed to the client.
